<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>I: The Green Hat</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-1" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">The Green Hat</p>
			</hgroup>
			<section id="chapter-1-1" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p>IT has occurred to the writer to call this unimportant history The Green Hat because a green hat was the first thing about her that he saw: as also it was, in a way, the last thing about her that he saw. It was bright green, of a sort of felt, and bravely worn: being, no doubt, one of those that women who have many hats affect <i>pour le sport</i>.</p>
				<p>I saw it for the first time (writes the Author) on the eve of my removal from one residence in London to another; although when I say residence I mean that I was, by the grace of God and at the impulse of my own temerity, removing to somewhat more habitable premises nearby from two rooms and a bathroom above a mean lane in a place called Shepherd‚Äôs Market. Not that our lane hadn‚Äôt attractions of its own to offer. Our lane was one in which many improbable things were wont to happen, but it somehow seemed inevitable that such things should happen there. But maybe I had better select a few of these things, that you may know the sort of lane ours was. I have seen men arrested there, and I have seen a heavy constable worsted in a fight with a little Jew pickpocket, who was for some time responsible for a rag-shop in our lane. I have seen two butlers fighting in our lane. I have seen a very old nobleman woo a flower-girl in our lane, but whether or not she ever favoured his suit our lane had no means of telling. One night I fell over the body of a woman lying in the blood of a broken head, and in our lane by night policemen solace themselves by smoking cigarettes into the crowns of their helmets, while cats, I must tell you, will never cease to sport together all about it.</p>
				<p>But it was by day that our lane attained to any real interest for a student of such things, for then it was sacred to the activities of a hearty-looking man in a brown bowler-hat, who with one hand would write interminably in a small book, while with the other he dealt with passing men in slips of paper known to the law as ‚Äúbetting-slips.‚Äù As partner to the hearty-looking man‚ÅÝ‚Äîwe are, I venture to say, already embarked on our tale, for these gentlemen will make a faint devil‚Äôs chorus for more spacious happenings‚ÅÝ‚Äîwas a tall, wizened man who wore a check cap and had hair growing out of his ears. This man would stand at one end of the lane and now and then say, ‚ÄúOi!‚Äù When he had said ‚ÄúOi!‚Äù he would light a cigarette, while the hearty-looking man would run heavily round our end of the lane, for ‚ÄúOi!‚Äù meant that the law was after him. When the law had gone he would come back wiping his mouth, and jokes were exchanged with the butcher and the fishmonger; but when the law really wanted him, say twice a year, a posse of policemen would simultaneously rush both ends of our lane, and the hearty-looking man was mulcted in a fine not exceeding so much and was back again the next morning within a yard of my door. Among his most persistent admirers was a little bent old man with blood-shot eyes and a twitching mouth, who was a window-cleaner without a Union, which meant that he would clean a window for threepence and want no tip. He liked me, and used to give me racing information, but I never won anything.</p>
				<p>Now the first thing to do is to clear the ground as quickly as possible for the coming of the green hat, for Mr. H. G. Wells says that there is no money to be made out of any book that cannot bring a woman in within the first few thousand words. But in setting the scene in Shepherd‚Äôs Market we have evaded the necessity for any ‚Äúwriting-up‚Äù of atmosphere, for that place has an atmosphere quite impossible to convey in a book, unless, of course, you were to take the book to Shepherd‚Äôs Market and leave it in our lane for a few days in nice warm weather. Shepherd‚Äôs Market is, in fine, a collection of lively odours bounded on the north side by Curzon Street, on the south by Piccadilly, on the west by Hertford Street, and on the east by Half-Moon Street; and rejoices, therefore, in the polite direction of Mayfair, as you will see printed on the notepaper of any of its residents. A flower-shop which was opened in our lane lived for only six months, and that in spite of the gardenia gallantly affected by the old nobleman from Curzon Street every day. I, after having lived there for six years, was (by the grace of God) leaving on the morrow.</p>
				<p>It is late, after midnight, when the tale begins.</p>
				<p>I had been that evening to a party; for that is now the name that folks give to a dance‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI am not sure why. In America, I believe, one doesn‚Äôt even give a party, one just throws a party, but as to this party I am telling of, it had, with that infallible sense of direction peculiar to parties, whether given or thrown, taken a man by the nerves at the back of his head and had hurled him into a deep pit. And it was as one encompassed by that pit, deep as the playground of the seven devils, dark as the very dungeons of gaiety, that I found myself back in my flat above the mean lane. It would be the last night I would ever spend in that flat, and I was so glad. The bookshelves had already been taken away, and books littered the floor, books and pictures and what-nots crowded the gate-leg table, while the ottoman with its soiled Chinese yellow cover was a shambles of whatever you will find in a bachelor‚Äôs flat if you begin to clean out the drawers. The bedroom, however, was still ordered for human habitation.</p>
				<p>Now I had no sooner cast my hat on the bed than the bell rang. It was one of those infernal things you pull at, so that they may go on clanging for ever, and as it clanged I wondered, I am afraid ungraciously, who it could be. Could it, I wondered, be any one for Gerald March, who lived in the flat above mine? But no one, I told myself, has called on Gerald March within the memory of man, for that man discourages callers, that man knows how to discourage callers.</p>
				<p>I had no hope in pretending not to be at home, for my lights were plain to see from our lane. And in my mind‚Äôs eye I saw the hearty face of the acquaintance at the door, and with my mind‚Äôs ear I heard the hearty greeting that dropped from his parasitical and thirsty lips. He had seen my light, that man, as he went his way home from some party even more pestilential than the one which had sent me home stricken; and he would fain drink a glass with me, after the fashion of pests of the night, that are hearty with the weary and thirsty with the unwary.</p>
				<p>I could, however, always order my privacy without seeming too unfriendly by looking down from my bedroom window, for whereas the windows of my sitting-room faced the public-bar of The Leather Butler and an angle of the offices of the Duke of Marlborough‚Äôs fine house, from my bedroom window I had a clear prospect of our lane. Of pests, however, there was neither sight nor sign; nor of cats, nor of men, nor of any low and usual thing; only, under the lamp at the Sheep Street end of our lane, a long, low, yellow car which shone like a battle-chariot. It was empty.</p>
				<p>Now I am of those who are affected by motor-cars: their lines thrill me, the harmony of their colour touches me, a gallant device wins my earnest admiration so that, walking along Piccadilly, I will distress my mind by being a partisan of this one, a despiser of that one. Nor am I to be won by any cheap thing, no matter how brave-seeming it may be to the eye, how admirable in endurance; but I am to be won only by the simple lines, the severe and menacing aspect, of the aces among motor-cars; for economy hath charms, but not to the eye. This car charmed the eye. Like a huge yellow insect that had dropped to earth from a butterfly civilisation, this car, gallant and suave, rested in the lowly silence of the Shepherd‚Äôs Market night. Open as a yacht, it wore a great shining bonnet, and flying over the crest of this great bonnet, as though in proud flight over the heads of scores of phantom horses, was that silver stork by which the gentle may be pleased to know that they have just escaped death beneath the wheels of a Hispano-Suiza car, as supplied to His Most Catholic Majesty.</p>
				<p>Downwards to my door I looked, and there was a green hat before my door. The light from the one lamp in Sheep Street fell about it, and that was how I saw that it was a green hat, of a sort of felt, and bravely worn: being, no doubt, one of those that women who have many hats affect <i>pour le sport</i>.</p>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-1-2" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>‚ÄúDo you know if Mr. March is in?‚Äù asked the voice of the green hat. But I could not see her face for the shadow of the brim, for it was a piratical brim, such as might very possibly defy the burning suns of El Dorado.</p>
				<p>I said I was not sure. I was very surprised‚ÅÝ‚Äîa caller for Gerald March! ‚ÄúIf we look up,‚Äù I said, ‚Äúwe can see by his lights if he is in.‚Äù And I stepped out into the lane, and the green hat and I stared up at the topmost windows of the grubby little house.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúThere‚Äôs no light <i>there</i>,‚Äù she said. ‚ÄúI suppose the light below is yours.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúThere is,‚Äù I said, ‚Äúbut it‚Äôs very faint. He‚Äôs in all right.‚Äù</p>
				<p>Still she looked up, thoughtfully. She was tall, not very tall, but as tall as becomes a woman. Her hair, in the shadow of her hat, may have been any colour, but I dared swear that there was a tawny whisper to it. And it seemed to dance, from beneath her hat, a very formal dance on her cheeks. One had, with her, a sense of the conventions; and that she had just been playing six sets of tennis.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúIf I look surprised,‚Äù I said, ‚Äúthat is because you are the first caller Gerald March has ever had.‚Äù</p>
				<p>She seemed to smile, faintly, as one might in the way of politeness. Otherwise she did not seem to be given to smiling.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúHe‚Äôs my brother,‚Äù she said, as though explaining herself, the hour, everything. ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs very nice of you to have opened the door.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
				<p>I was listening, oh, intently! One had to, to make out what she was saying. Then the voice suddenly expired and one was left standing there, listening to nothing, unprepared to say anything. It was, you can see, rather silly; but one got used to it.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúOh,‚Äù I said, ‚ÄúGerald wouldn‚Äôt open a door! He never opens doors.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
				<p>She looked vaguely about our lane. I was proud of our lane at that moment, for it set off the colour of her hat so well. There was no doubt but that she was tired. Seven sets, possibly. Her eyes seemed at last to find the car of the flying silver stork.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúThat car‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ I suppose it will be all right there?‚Äù</p>
				<p>She seemed to me to lack a proper pride in her car. I said I thought it would be quite all right there, as though a Hispano-Suiza was a usual sight near my door; and I suggested that maybe I had better see her upstairs to her brother‚Äôs flat, as it was the top flat and there were no lights on the stairs. But she appeared to be in no hurry. Thoughtful she was. She said dimly: ‚ÄúYou are very kind.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
				<p>One somehow gathered from her voice that her face was very small.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôve often wanted,‚Äù she murmured, looking about, ‚Äúto live in this place. You know, vaguely.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúOf course, vaguely,‚Äù I said.</p>
				<p>She looked at me, seemed to see me for the first time, seemed faintly surprised to find herself talking to me. I was surprised, too. Maybe it was the way her hair danced formally on her cheeks that made it look such a small face, but it seemed to me no larger than a small size in ladies‚Äô handkerchiefs. That was why I was surprised. She stood carelessly, like the women in Georges Barbier‚Äôs almanacks, <i>Falbalas et Fanfreluches</i>, who know how to stand carelessly. Her hands were thrust into the pockets of a light brown leather jacket‚ÅÝ‚Äî<i>pour le sport</i>‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhich shone quite definitely in the lamplight: it was wide open at the throat, and had a high collar of the fur of a few minks. I once had a friend who was a taxidermist, and that was how I knew that. One small red elephant marched across what I could see of her dress, which was dark and not <i>pour le sport</i>.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúPerhaps you are right,‚Äù she admitted doubtfully. Not that I had the faintest idea what she was talking about.</p>
				<p>I went before her up the dark narrow stairs, sideways, lighting and dropping matches, after the custom of six years. There were three floors in the little house, but the first was untenanted except by mice. I wondered whether it would interest her if I told her I was leaving to-morrow, but I did not see why it should. She, after all, had probably just come back from foreign parts. About her, it was perfectly obvious, was the aura of many adventures. But I was looking on her in brotherly sort, interested in her because she was Gerald March‚Äôs sister. For that was a most deficient man in every other respect. Fancy, I thought. She said: ‚ÄúOo, isn‚Äôt it dark!‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúOf course,‚Äù I said, striking yet another match against the wall, ‚ÄúI knew Gerald <i>had</i> a sister, but I had a vague idea, I don‚Äôt know why, that she was still at school.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúI don‚Äôt suppose,‚Äù she said helpfully‚ÅÝ‚Äîstumbled slightly, I helped her‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äúthat any one knows <i>everything</i>. Is that mice downstairs? Rats? Oo, really.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ Gerald and I showed, once upon a time, a strong tendency to be twins, though there was a good hour between us, so I was told. I was at the tail end of the hour.‚Äù Slowly struggling up those dim, narrow, musty stairs, her green hat now and then flaming in the matchlight, she gave one worthless information in a slightly husky, impersonal voice. As we came up to my landing I asked her if she had seen Gerald lately.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúNot,‚Äù she said, whispered, ‚Äúfor years and years. Nearly ten, I think. Do you think that comes, perhaps, of having been almost twins once upon a time?‚Äù</p>
				<p>I did not say anything for I was thinking hard. Now I was Gerald‚Äôs friend. This lady of the green hat was Gerald‚Äôs sister, nay, his twin sister. Fancy, I thought. Where, I asked myself, did one stand? It was a matter for thought, for deep thought, and so I treated it, as she did not appear to be in any great hurry.</p>
				<p>Now while these things were passing, the lady and I were standing on my landing, which was four foot by three; she with one foot on the stair below, one leather shoulder against the wall. And one had again, with her, a sense of the conventions.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúYou are thinking,‚Äù she accused me. ‚ÄúI wonder what about.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
				<p>The light that plunged through my half-open sitting-room door fought a great fight with the shadow of her green hat and lit her face mysteriously. She was fair. As they would say it in the England of long ago‚ÅÝ‚Äîshe was fair. And she was grave, so grave. That is a sad lady, I thought. To be fair, to be sad‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ why, was she intelligent, too? And white she was, very white, and her painted mouth was purple in the dim light, and her eyes, which seemed set very wide apart, were cool, impersonal, sensible, and they were blazing blue. Even in that light they were blazing blue, like two spoonfuls of the Mediterranean in the early morning of a brilliant day. The sirens had eyes like that, without a doubt, when they sang of better dreams. But no siren, she! That was a sad lady, most grave. And always her hair would be dancing a tawny, formal dance about the small white cheeks.</p>
				<p>She smiled, when it occurred to her that she was looking at me.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúI know what you are thinking,‚Äù she said.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúI wonder!‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúYes. You like Gerald, don‚Äôt you?‚Äù She thought about that. ‚ÄúWell, what you are thinking is, whether it is fair to him to take me up there in case he is drunk.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúIf only it was ‚Äòin case,‚Äô<span class="lftspc">‚Äù</span> I said. ‚ÄúYou see?‚Äù</p>
				<p>She closed her eyes.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúPoor Gerald!‚Äù she whispered. ‚ÄúIsn‚Äôt it a shame!‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôm afraid,‚Äù I said, ‚Äúthere‚Äôs nothing to be done.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúOh, I know!‚Äù Oh, she seemed to know that from her heart. And I wondered why they had not seen each other for ten years. I couldn‚Äôt imagine her disliking Gerald‚ÅÝ‚Äîchildish, furious Gerald! Probably, I thought, he was to blame, and I wondered if there was anything in Gerald‚Äôs life for which he was not to blame. Poor Gerald.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúYou see,‚Äù the slightly husky voice was saying, ‚ÄúI just came to-night on an Impulse. I am scarcely ever in England.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù The voice expired. We waited, and she acknowledged my patience with a jewel of a smile. ‚ÄúAnd I suddenly thought I would like to see Gerald to-night. Please,‚Äù she suddenly begged, so seriously, ‚Äúwon‚Äôt you let me? I‚Äôd like just to <i>see</i> him‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ but if you think‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Ää?‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúOh,‚Äù I said, ‚Äúcome on.‚Äù</p>
				<p>She laughed, a little nervously, abruptly. Gerald‚Äôs door was at the head of the next flight of stairs, and it was, as usual, wide open. She moved one step forward into the room, she stopped, her eyes on the ceiling, as fixed as lamps. Yes, those were very sensible eyes. She didn‚Äôt look at Gerald.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúWhat is it?‚Äù she asked dimly.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúWhisky,‚Äù I said. It was so obvious.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúBut more than that! There‚Äôs certainly whisky, but.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúWet shoes.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúBut that‚Äôs too literary! Oh, of course! Old women in alms-houses.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
				<p>She was talking, it was so easy to see, against her eyes. Now she was here she didn‚Äôt want to see Gerald. She was trying to put off the moment when her eyes must rest on Gerald. Still just within the dingy room, she looked everywhere but at Gerald.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúLot of books,‚Äù she said.</p>
				<p>I made to go, but the slightest hint of a start detained me. She suggested her gestures. That was a very quiet lady. She didn‚Äôt, if you please, intrude her womanhood on the occasion. Women do that unconsciously. But she didn‚Äôt do it, unconsciously. She met a man on his own ground. That was a gallant lady.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúOh!‚Äù she said. ‚ÄúOh!‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúMight just as well come away,‚Äù I muttered. I was used to Gerald, but at the moment, at her sudden whisper, I would have liked to murder him. Here for sixteen months not a soul had come to see him‚ÅÝ‚Äîand now, before his sister, and his twin sister too, he was in this vile state. But she had insisted on seeing him. What could I do? I promised Gerald a pretty speech on the morrow. He would be more or less human to-morrow, for Gerald had those phenomenal recuperative powers that are peculiar to lean drunkards.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúThe illness,‚Äù I told her, ‚Äúgoes in periods of three days. On the first day he is thoughtful, on the second he is thoughtless, and on the third speechless.‚Äù</p>
				<p>I could not see her face, her back was to me. The leather jacket, the brave green hat, the thoughtful poise. But I heard her whisper the name of the inert thing sprawling half on a broken Windsor chair and half across the littered table, and it was as though there was a smile in the whisper, and I thought to myself that these twins must have been great playmates once upon a time. ‚ÄúGerald!‚Äù she whispered. ‚ÄúGerald! Gerald!‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúOh, go to hell!‚Äù muttered Gerald, and, without looking up, without waking up, twitched his head feverishly to one side, upsetting a tea-cup half-full of whisky.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúHe thinks it‚Äôs me,‚Äù I explained from the door, and suddenly I found her looking at me over her shoulder, so thoughtfully. I can see her now, the way she suddenly looked at me, half over her leather shoulder, thinking I knew not what, and her right hand spread out on her brother‚Äôs arm. There was a striking emerald on the third finger of her right hand, livid against the dark thing that was Gerald March.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúOnly twenty-nine,‚Äù she told me gravely, ‚ÄúGerald and me.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúOh,‚Äù I said. What could one say?</p>
				<p>‚ÄúBad luck, I do think,‚Äù she murmured. I wondered, you know, whom she was talking to. Certainly not to me.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúHe‚Äôs a very good fellow,‚Äù I said.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúHeredity, you see,‚Äù she suddenly explained. ‚ÄúFather almost died of it. Brandy, though. He liked brandy, Barty did. They said he would die if he had more than half-a-bottle a day, but he had a bottle to make sure, and then he died of pneumonia.‚Äù</p>
				<p>Then, in her silence, she was so still that I grew very uncomfortable. What was she thinking about? She was staring down at the sprawling thing that was her twin brother, the emerald still livid against his arm.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúHe wrote a very good book once,‚Äù I said, to say something.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúYes. About Boy.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúBoy?‚Äù Gerald, you see, was no talker. He just swore, but automatically; it meant nothing.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúDidn‚Äôt you know?‚Äù She looked at me again, but her eyes seemed to me masked. I was to know later why her eyes were masked just then. I said I knew nothing at all about Gerald.</p>
				<p>She passed a finger over one of her eyebrows, and looked at it. ‚ÄúDirty,‚Äù she said.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúYears ago,‚Äù she said, ‚Äúbefore the war, Gerald had a very great friend. Gerald, you see, is a hero-worshipper. In spite of his air and everything, that is what Gerald is, a hero-worshipper. And no hero, no Gerald. And so, when his hero died, Gerald died too. Funny, life is, isn‚Äôt it? Then the war, and that, of course, buried him. And now.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù Those absorbed, blazing blue eyes! The sea was in them, and the whisper of all open places: the magic of the sea was in her eyes, whipped with salt and winds.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúNo friends?‚Äù she asked dimly. ‚ÄúNo women? Nothing?‚Äù</p>
				<p>And just at that moment I had, for the first time, that feeling of incapacity with her. I was to have it again, profoundly, but I remember vividly that it came for the first time just then, in poor, furious Gerald‚Äôs room. Dingy‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat is what I felt before this quiet, thoughtful woman with the absorbed eyes. Dingy. I felt, I suppose, the immense dinginess of being a human being, for there is an immense, unalterable dinginess in being human, in the limitation of being human. But why I should feel that particularly with her I did not know then. She, too, was human, quiet, gentle, very unaware. But, later, I was to know why.</p>
				<p>It was with an effort that I told her about Gerald. That feeling of self-dinginess came somehow to a point in just feeling common. For I was what Gerald was not, what she obviously was not. I could somehow ‚Äúcope with‚Äù my time and generation, while they were of the breed destined to failure. I was of the race that is surviving the England of Horatio Bottomley, the England of lies, vulgarity, and unclean savagery; while they of the imperious nerves had failed, they had died that slow white death which is reserved for privilege in defeat.</p>
				<p>Gerald, I told her, was a more solitary man than I had ever known or thought to know. I supposed he had a small income, for he seemed to manage to live. He was very shy, absurdly shy, tortured shy. She nodded gravely, and I went on to say that shyness was a cruel disease with Gerald: it was a shyness, to strangers, without charm, for he never could show his shyness, he must show everything but his shyness. And so it was that he couldn‚Äôt get on with people, and now he had ceased to try, he just had drinks. Every Sunday afternoon he went to tea with his aunt, Lady Eve Chalice, in Mount Street.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúIt was Eve who really created my impulse,‚Äù she told me, then: ‚ÄúOh, here!‚Äù and I found I had an empty cigarette-case in my hand and that she was offering me hers. It was an oblong white-jade case, and chained to it by a double chain of gold was a hectagonal black onyx box which may or may not have held powder. One corner of the hectagonal black onyx was initialed in minute diamond letters: I.S.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúIris,‚Äù she said. ‚ÄúIris Storm.‚Äù And she smiled, childishly, formally, saying: ‚ÄúYou have been so nice, I had forgotten we didn‚Äôt know each other.‚Äù I told her my name, in that embarrassed way one always does tell any one one‚Äôs name, and we smoked a while in silence. She inhaled her smoke with a faint hiss, and her teeth were a regiment of even bits of rice-paper standing at attention, very smart and sharp. Teeth always give one ideas. These were imperious, dangerous teeth. On a middle one was wedged a small string of tobacco: it lay coiled there like a brown maggot, and when I told her about that she removed it with the nail of her small finger, and regarded it. She had a great talent for looking at nothing in particular, and that was the only likeness I could see between the twins: thoughtful they both were. Suddenly, from the tousled dark head on the table came a jumble of inarticulate words. She listened intently. Gerald shivered, but his face remained buried in his crossed arms.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúHe‚Äôs dreaming,‚Äù I said. She looked at me, and I thought there were tears in her eyes. But as they never fell, I am not sure. Thoughtful she was, smoking.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶</p>
				<p>‚ÄúWhy does God do these things?‚Äù she asked in a suddenly strong, clear voice, a most surprising voice; but I said nothing, knowing nothing of God.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúLet us go,‚Äù she said.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúShall I tell him you came?‚Äù</p>
				<p>She thought about that, looking at me. ‚ÄúYes,‚Äù she said, ‚Äúwill you? Please. Just that I came. You see, Gerald doesn‚Äôt‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ well,‚Äù she smiled somewhere in those eyes, ‚Äúlet us say he is against me.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
				<p>We were in the doorway of the soiled room of the drunkard. I was going to switch out the light. Often I would come upstairs and switch out Gerald‚Äôs light.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúGerald,‚Äù she said suddenly, in that strong voice, and I thought of a prefect‚Äôs voice at school, down the corridor of a dormitory. ‚ÄúGood-bye to Gerald.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúYou see,‚Äù she said to me, ‚ÄúGerald and I are the last Marches, and we ought to stand together. Don‚Äôt you think so?‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúYes, you ought,‚Äù I said gravely. One hand, the hand of the great emerald, hung against her leather jacket. ‚ÄúCertainly you ought,‚Äù I said, and raised the hand to my lips. Her hand smelt dimly of petrol and cigarettes, and a scent whose name I shall now never know.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúThese defiant courtesies,‚Äù she said thoughtfully. ‚ÄúThey‚Äôre very nice, I always say.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-1-3" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
				<p>Slowly, she first, we went down the narrow stairs to my landing. In the sudden flare of my match there was revealed a threepenny-bit of flesh just above the heel of her left shoe, and I had occasion to rebuke myself on the depravity that is man. She said over her shoulder: ‚ÄúHilary Townshend has told me about you.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúBut he has never told me about you!‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúOh, he would if you provoked him!‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúAnd may I?‚Äù</p>
				<p>But she did not seem to hear. Once Hilary had, I thought, said something about Gerald March having a sister, but I had not connected the vaguely heard name of Mrs. Storm with her. I don‚Äôt know why, but I had always imagined Gerald‚Äôs sister as a schoolgirl living somewhere in the country with a bankrupt old gentleman called Lord Portairley, Gerald‚Äôs uncle.</p>
				<p>We were on my small landing now, in the light that plunged out of the half-open door of my sitting-room: she with a foot on the stairs leading downwards, away.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúGood-bye,‚Äù she said. ‚ÄúReally, I think you‚Äôve been very kind.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
				<p>She seemed to me very nice and gentle; yes, nice; and then it seemed to me that across her gentleness flamed a bar of fire. She walked, oh, impersonally, in the fires of herself. I was on another planet. Hilary tells me now that he also had that feeling with her; but Hilary must have struggled against it, whereas I am incapable of struggling against any feeling.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúGood-bye,‚Äù I said.</p>
				<p>I was looking not at her but through the half-open door into my room. There lay the disorder of my life, the jumble, the lack of purpose, the silence, and the defeat of my life. I wasn‚Äôt, it seems almost an intrusion to say, very happy in those days; but that is by the way in the history of Gerald March and Iris Storm.</p>
				<p>Now here is the difficult part of this history. Of the many gaps it will contain, this seems to me the most grave, the least excusable. One should write, if not well, at least plausibly, about the things that happen. And yet I cannot be plausible about this, because I do not know how it happened. I mean, how she came into my room and sat down. I did not ask her. Did she want to? Mrs. Storm was a lady who gave you a sense of the conventions. Mrs. Storm was a‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ and yet‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ I do not know anything about her.</p>
				<p>I am trying, you can see, to realise her, to add her together; and, of course, failing. She showed you first one side of her and then another, and each side seemed to have no relation with any other, each side might have belonged to a different woman; indeed, since then I have found that each side did belong to a different woman. I have met a hundred pieces of Iris, quite vividly met them, since last I saw her. And sometimes I have thought of her‚ÅÝ‚Äîfoolishly, of course, but shall a man be wise about a woman?‚ÅÝ‚Äîas some one who had by a mistake of the higher authorities strayed into our world from a land unknown to us, a land where lived a race of men and women who, the perfection of our imperfections, were awaiting their inheritance of this world of ours when we, with that marvellous indirectness of purpose which is called being human, shall have finally annihilated each other in our endless squabbles about honour, morality, nationality.</p>
				<p>We have all of us a crude desire to ‚Äúplace‚Äù our fellows in this or that category or class: we like to know more or less what they are, so that, maybe, we may know more or less what we shall be to them. But, even with the knowledge that she was Gerald‚Äôs sister, that she was twenty-nine years old, that she was the niece of Lord Portairley, you could not, anyhow I couldn‚Äôt, ‚Äúplace‚Äù Mrs. Storm. You had a conviction, a rather despairing one, that she didn‚Äôt fit in anywhere, to any class, nay, to any nationality. She wasn‚Äôt that ghastly thing called ‚ÄúBohemian,‚Äù she wasn‚Äôt any of the ghastly things called ‚Äúsociety,‚Äù ‚Äúcounty,‚Äù upper, middle, and lower class. She was, you can see, some invention, ghastly or not, of her own. But she was so quiet about it, she didn‚Äôt intrude it on you, she was just herself, and that was a very quiet self. You felt she had outlawed herself from somewhere, but where was that somewhere? You felt she was tremendously indifferent as to whether she was outlawed or not. In her eyes you saw the landscape of England, spacious and brave; but you felt unreasonably certain that she was as devoid of patriotism as Mary Stuart. She gave you a sense of the conventions; but she gave you‚ÅÝ‚Äîunaware always, impersonal always, and those cool, sensible eyes!‚ÅÝ‚Äîa much deeper sense that she was somehow outside the comic, squalid, sometimes almost fine laws by which we judge as to what is and what is not conventional. That was why, I am trying to show, I felt so profoundly incapable with her. It was not as though one was non-existent; it was as though, with her, one existed only in the most limited sense. And, I suppose, she affected me particularly in that way simply because I am a man of my time. For that is a limitation a man can‚Äôt get beyond‚ÅÝ‚Äîto be of his time, completely. He may be successful, a man like that‚ÅÝ‚Äîindeed, should he not blow his brains out if he is not?‚ÅÝ‚Äîbut he who is of his time may never rise above himself: he is the galley-slave working incessantly at the oars of his life, which reflects the lives of the multitude of his fellows. Yes, I am of my time. And so I had with this woman that profound sense of incapability, of defeat, which any limited man must feel with a woman whose limitations he cannot know. She was‚ÅÝ‚Äîin that phrase of Mr. Conrad‚Äôs which can mean so little or so much‚ÅÝ‚Äîshe was of all time. She was, when the first woman crawled out of the mud of the primeval world. She would be, when the last woman walks towards the unmentionable end.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúGood-bye,‚Äù I said, and then, as I looked from the disordered room and my disenchanted life at her, the eyes in the shadow of the green hat were brilliant with laughter, so that I was stunned. ‚ÄúWhy are you laughing?‚Äù I asked, or perhaps I did not ask that, perhaps she had not been laughing at all, for when I was recovered from my stupor her eyes were quite grave, and dark as in a crypt. I pushed open the door of my room.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúHow I would like,‚Äù she said, that husky voice, ‚Äúa glass of cold water!‚Äù That was what she said, and so I let her go in alone into the sitting-room, whilst I turned on the tap in the bathroom. Fiercely and long I let the water run, pleased with the way it was filling the little house with its clean roar, pleased with the clean scent of the rushing water, which is always like the scent of cool sunlight. Then she said: ‚ÄúYou have had a quick bath,‚Äù and so we became friends.</p>
				<p>She stood among the littered books on the floor, looking round at the disorder, like a tulip with a green head. She sipped the water, looking round wisely over the rim of the tumbler. I explained that I was leaving to-morrow, and therefore the disorder.</p>
				<p>We talked.</p>
				<p>In that disordered room, so littered with books that you might hardly take a step without stumbling over one, it was not difficult to talk. Indeed, it is never so easy to talk about books as when they are about the floor, so that you may turn them over with your foot, see what they are, pick them up and drop them anywhere with no precious nonsense as to where they should exactly go.</p>
				<p>She waved her glass of water about, sipping it. A drop of water clung like a gem to the corner of her painted mouth. It was not fair.</p>
				<p>Talking with her in that room was like talking with her as we walked on a windy heath: she threw out things, you caught all you could of them, you missed what you liked, and you threw something back. Now and then something would turn up in a voice which was suddenly strong and clear, and every time her voice was strong and clear you were so surprised that you did not hear so well as when she spoke inaudibly. She had none of the organised, agonised grimaces of the young lady of fashion. But one knew she was not a young lady of fashion, for she hadn‚Äôt a sulky mouth.</p>
				<p>Hers was that random, uninformed, but severely discriminating taste which maddens you: you try unsuccessfully to think that there is nothing at the back of it, nothing but a misty criterion of enjoyment. She used some words as though she had never heard any one else using them. ‚ÄúNice,‚Äù for instance, she used in a calmly immense sense. The word seemed turned topsy-turvy, and to turn everything else topsy-turvy. She used the word ‚Äúcommon,‚Äù I think, to denote a thing attempted and achieved scratchily. Mr. Ernest Bramah was, for instance, not ‚Äúcommon.‚Äù But Miss Clemence Dane in <i>Legend</i> was. ‚ÄúOh, come!‚Äù I said, for to me <i>Legend</i> is an achievement in literature.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúAll those women talking and dissecting and yearning together,‚Äù she said. ‚ÄúTheir breath smells of‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ oh, red hair!‚Äù She thought Miss Romer Wilson was among the greatest writers of the time: <i>The Grand Tour</i> particularly. She was loyal to girlish admirations for Mr. Locke, Mr. Temple Thurston, Oscar Wilde. D. H. Lawrence was ‚Äúnice.‚Äù ‚ÄúNice?‚Äù I said. ‚ÄúWell, wonderful,‚Äù she said, with wide eyes, so that I was made to seem slow and stupid. M. Paul Morand was ‚Äúcommon,‚Äù a ‚Äústunt‚Äù writer.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúI detest the word ‚Äòstunt,‚Äô<span class="lftspc">‚Äù</span> I said.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúThat is why,‚Äù she said, ‚ÄúI used it about Monsieur Morand. He is an abbreviation, like nightie for nightshirt.‚Äù I did not agree with her. She did not like abbreviations, even lunch for luncheon. ‚ÄúWhat,‚Äù she asked, ‚Äúis the hurry?‚Äù I could not tell her. She thought that perhaps English was not the language for abbreviations and diminutives. She deferred to my judgment about that, and I said what I said. One just didn‚Äôt discuss Barrie: there he was. ‚ÄúYou can‚Äôt laugh me out of him,‚Äù she smiled, ‚Äúby calling him whimsical.‚Äù She had once enjoyed a book by Mr. Compton Mackenzie, a garden catalogue called <i>Guy and Pauline</i>. There was Hergesheimer. She put up a gallant, insincere defence for the Imagistes, but it turned out that she had never read any, and wasn‚Äôt at all sure what they were. ‚ÄúThey‚Äôre short for poetry,‚Äù I said coldly, ‚Äúlike nightie for nightingale.‚Äù But perhaps the book she most profoundly liked was <i>The Passionate Friends</i>, with perhaps the last part of <i>Tono-Bungay</i>. ‚ÄúAnd, of course,‚Äù she said, ‚Äú<i>The Good Soldier</i>,‚Äù Mr. Ford Maddox Hueffer‚Äôs amazing romance. From a table she picked up Joyce‚Äôs <i>Ulysses</i>, looked at it vaguely, dropped it absently on the floor amongst the others. I held a watching financial brief for it. One was to find later that she was completely without a sense of property, either her own or other people‚Äôs.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúIt‚Äôs a funny thing,‚Äù she mused.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶</p>
				<p>‚ÄúWhat‚Äôs a funny thing?‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúSatirists.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ They are all very plain men. Grubby, too. Why?‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúWhy?‚Äù I said. ‚ÄúBut, really‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
				<p>She looked at me through the smoke of her cigarette. She was grave, intent. But one never knew what about.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶</p>
				<p>‚ÄúGenius,‚Äù I said, ‚Äúhas‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúOf course, genius. But‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúThey are striving,‚Äù I said, ‚Äúfor‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúYes, I know. But why are they always so ugly? I mean, these people called ‚Äòsatirists.‚Äô One sees them abroad, at the Rotonde, or in Rome, Florence.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù I saw her among them, the small white face, the cool, sensible, huge eyes, very attentive, deferring. ‚ÄúThey marry plain, too. Always. Invariably. Why? And man and wife hang on to each other like grim death, despising everything hard. And they come out in spots. Why? One just wonders.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ It seems to need very ugly men with very unattractive wives to despise things, to show us our ugliness. Has ever any even fairly human-looking person ever been a ‚Äòsatirist‚Äô? But I suppose if they weren‚Äôt so plain they wouldn‚Äôt have so much time to be obscene on paper. Or am I talking nonsense?‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúIt‚Äôs absurd,‚Äù I said, ‚Äúto make it a question of looks‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúBut it makes me furious!‚Äù she said in that suddenly strong clear voice. ‚ÄúThese despisers. These grubby clever men with their grubby genius. The heroes of the weekly reviews. Their impotent little obscenities. I‚Äôve tried to find, in knowing them and reading them, a great, real contempt, something as fierce and clean as fire, a nightmare of contempt, so that from the pillars of burning smoke we can build beings of better shape than ourselves. I‚Äôve read, watched, listened, wanting to know.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
				<p>I said things, too. But who am I? For instance, I said: ‚ÄúYou don‚Äôt allow to all men one common failing, which shows particularly when the men are satirical writers: they must always write about women rather in the spirit of uncleanminded undergraduates. You should be more tolerant, Mrs. Storm.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
				<p>We talked of vulgarity. She had once read a book of mine, and I complained bitterly of my vulgarity, saying, you know, that one didn‚Äôt begin by being vulgar, ‚Äúbut one began,‚Äù I suggested, ‚Äúby being just bumptious. The meeker you are, the more bumptious you probably are inside, but that does not harm. Not that I was ever really meek. And at the beginning there‚Äôs a tremendous humility in you to yourself. You can‚Äôt have any achievement without that humility, and yet you lose it later on because you find out all the wrong things about yourself. People are only too ready to show you the wrong things about yourself. They like doing it. They seem to think there is something wrong with conceit. It irritates fools, because they think it is unwarranted. How do they know if it is unwarranted, and what does it matter if it is or not? Or it irritates them because they too once had in themselves a humility to themselves, and then allowed it to be, according to that Bottomley-Kipling-John-Bull gospel, ‚Äòknocked out of them.‚Äô And so if a young man is not very strong he lets the mischievous fools take his conceit away from him, he turns his back on his real conceit, which is himself‚ÅÝ‚Äîhe has it ‚Äòknocked out of him,‚Äô just as any taste for music was knocked out of him by his public-school‚ÅÝ‚Äîand goes out for one of the spurious conceits which are called ‚Äòbeing as others are.‚Äô Then he has put his feet on the endless and never-ending road of vulgarity, and there are very few turnings.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
				<p>She sat in the deep wicker armchair, which had come with me from Chelsea six years before but would travel nevermore. It creaked madly as she sat down, and she glanced at it in surprise. ‚ÄúOf course,‚Äù she said, ‚Äúit‚Äôs contagious.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúYou are quite wrong,‚Äù I said. ‚ÄúThe real sticky part seems to come from inside one. And there, you see, is where a writer has a sense of defeat‚ÅÝ‚Äîa writer, I mean, who must earn his living by writing, and so must always write. For it is more difficult for a second-rate writer not to be vulgar than for a camel to pass through a needle‚Äôs eye. It uncoils from somewhere inside you, like a nasty, sticky snake. So slick it is, too. So helpful, often. And when you see it for the first time you stare at it transfixed, and you say, ‚ÄòBut <i>I</i> am not vulgar!‚Äô But you get used to it later on. Very few people notice it. Most people like it. And, of course, it pays.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúThe golden snake,‚Äù she said. ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs quite a good snake. It is silly to despise money.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúWriters,‚Äù I said, and, I think, said rightly, ‚Äúlove money, they adore money! Successful writers, I mean. The ones who have become venerable, the ones who have made great names by writing about the irony of life and the incapabilities of wealth, the writers of the people for the people. They worship money, they hoard money. One and all despise rich people, and are perfectly beastly about the upper-classes. You should ask any publisher about the business capacity of any great author who writes about the Irony of Life. To really intelligent men of the middle-classes, living in sin does not seem nearly so wicked as living in luxurious sin. I only know one successful author who has the decency to get drunk with his easily-earned money. One should keep a sense of proportion about money, and you can only do that by throwing it away. The Jews, for instance‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúJews,‚Äù she said, ‚Äúare charming. The rich ones, I mean, and preferably the fat shiny ones. They understand luxury and elegance, and elegance is an enchantment that the skin loves. But nowadays only Jews have an idea of enchantment, only Jews and Americans. Furs, jewels, spacious rooms, trellised terraces, all lovely baubles, silks of China, myrrh, frankincense, and motor-cars. The Jews are disenchanted, but at least they‚Äôre brave enough to insist on having all the enchantments of disenchantment. Luxury, ease, splendour, spaciousness. You‚Äôll say they‚Äôre florid. Well, they may be, they are, but they‚Äôre also the last towers of chivalry. Mr. Chesterton goes running after them shouting about beer and the Pope, but if you‚Äôre going to leave chivalry to beer-drinkers and the Pope, God help enchantment. You‚Äôll say that the Americans‚Äô indulgent admiration for their wives almost borders on the <i>gaga</i>, but they fight for it very really, they don‚Äôt just talk and indulge. They fight with money, they have the courage of their cheques, they dare tremendous duels, they get up at unearthly hours in the morning to dash towards the rendezvous, and they draw a cheque just as gallantly as any rather caddish cavalier ever drew a sword.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúEnglishmen,‚Äù I said, ‚Äú<i>respect</i> their women.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúMaybe,‚Äù she said absently.</p>
				<p>We were impersonal. Now and then the wicker armchair creaked beneath her, and she looked at it with faint surprise. Now and then a car screamed on Piccadilly, an electric-landau sounded its bells through Shepherd‚Äôs Market towards its garage by Camelot House. Now and then her slightly husky voice expired. Then we waited a while. She stared deeply into the eyes of a mask which a Russian artist had once given me in exchange for a poker debt. It lay sideways against a corner of the fender. I waited for her to say something about that, for it was the mask of a Florentine gentleman that was a lecher. I had grown used to it, as one can grow used to anything, but people would remark on it adversely. The lady of the green hat said nothing, and that was how I knew that for her everything was inevitable. That is an important thing to know about a woman, for you know then that you will never know where you are.</p>
				<p>We became personal. She said: ‚ÄúLet us talk about our friends now.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúTo-night,‚Äù I said, ‚ÄúI have been to a party at the Hallidays‚Äô.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúAh, the pitiless vulgarians! Surely, between us, we can do better than that!‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúThere‚Äôs Hilary.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúThe sweet! Can you <i>not</i> love Hilary? But to-night,‚Äù she said very seriously, ‚ÄúI have been dining with old Maurice Harpenden. How he would hate me to say old! I went out all the way to Sutton Marle to do that, because he expects it of me when I am in England. We are enemies, and we watch each other. He was very courtly. They are difficult to deal with, handsome old men who have known one since one was so high. You need to be a woman to know what I mean, but you must try to pretend for a minute. Thank you. Organically, of course, they are perfect. Good features and long legs and iron-grey hair. Character and clothes by Robert Hichens. They are very courtly, and then they touch one. Now, why do they do that? They pretend to do it in a friendly way, as any gentleman of the old school might to the daughter of another gentleman of the old school: but they make <i>opportunities</i>.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù The husky voice committed suicide, was buried, and in the third second rose from the dead. ‚ÄúI do not understand men. I do not understand the ‚Äòold school‚Äô type of man, nor what ‚Äòold school‚Äô means, unless it means that you never did anything at school except win the Battle of Waterloo. Then as soon as you left school you were qualified by good-looks, a charm of manner, and a habit of becoming popular with elderly men which is peculiar to right-minded young Englishmen, to become Major-General Sir Maurice Harpenden, K.C.B., C.M.G., D.S.O., and to lead your troops in battle with that gallant inefficiency patented by English infantry-commanders who know a good horse when they see one. After which you can spend the rest of your life in <i>bantering</i>. You can see that I do not like Maurice. We dine, and we are enemies, and we watch each other.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúThe sire doesn‚Äôt seem very like the son. Napier is a saint.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
				<p>The chair creaked. She was looking at me from under her hat, gravely as a Red Indian. ‚ÄúThere were two roads leading from a certain tree, and when we were eighteen life said to me, ‚ÄòYou go this way,‚Äô and life said to Napier, ‚ÄòYou go that way.‚Äô And so we did that, and so it has been.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
				<p>Now I was staring at her mouth, which was a silky red mouth engraved with I don‚Äôt know how many deep downward lines, and my heart beat twice so loudly that I wondered if she had heard it, for she whispered sharply: ‚ÄúListen!‚Äù But it was only a clock striking somewhere in London, and its striking was quickly done.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúI must go,‚Äù she said, but not even the armchair creaked, and her green hat was still crushed against the back of the chair, and her eyes were still staring profoundly over my shoulder. There was only the window there. The curtains were not drawn, and I thought I would draw them, but it seemed a pity to move. Her eyes glowed like an animal‚Äôs. She was staring, absorbed, over my right shoulder, but there was only the window there. She was asleep. Then her eyes dilated into glowing points, and her lips said: ‚Äú<i>On a envie.</i>‚Äù</p>
				<p>Then she made a gesture of distaste.</p>
				<p>She said: ‚ÄúThere are desires.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúHeavens, do you need to tell me that!‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúOh, not those desires!‚Äù Expressionless, blazing eyes absorbed over my shoulder, she waved away ‚Äúthose desires.‚Äù I was snubbed.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúThey call it,‚Äù she said, ‚Äúthe desire-for-I-know-not-what. They will find it one day when we are dead and all things that live now are dead. They will find it when everything is dead but the dreams we have no words for. It is not chocolate, it is not cigarettes, it is not cocaine, nor opium, nor sex. It is not eating, drinking, flying, fighting, loving. It is not love‚Äôs delight, it is not bearing children, though in that there are moments like jewels. There is one taste in us that is unsatisfied. I don‚Äôt know what that taste is, but I know it is there. Life‚Äôs best gift, hasn‚Äôt some one said, is the ability to dream of a better life.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
				<p>The green hat crushed recklessly against the back of the chair, she stared, still and absorbed, at the names that friends of long-ago had written on the ceiling with smoke of candle-flame. Her eyes glowed, glowed like an animal‚Äôs. The light of the reading-lamp on the littered table by my elbow kissed her lip, and the light kissed the faint, faint down on her lip into a few minutes of existence as a garden of gold dust. A sword lay in my mind, twisting and shining among the inner grotesqueries where we keep ourselves, in the real sense, to ourselves.</p>
				<p>I forced my mind to a more legal aspect of her. There were two rings on her wedding finger. A narrow circle of platinum, a narrow circle of gold. I wondered if she had been married twice. I tried to imagine her husbands. They would be tall, handsome men, and she would be passionately in love with them. She would, like all women in love with tall, handsome men, be worshipful as a dog. Physically they would be very courteous to her, but no more than courteous, and mentally they would, if I may say so, treat her rough. They would go to sleep quickly, and she would lie awake far into the night, pressing her breasts, because they hurt her. She would think. She would not think. Then one day, when she was between thinking and not thinking, she would be unfaithful, and the tall, handsome man who was her husband would apologise to her for not having understood her better. But she would say, with cold eyes: ‚ÄúThere is nothing to understand. <i>On a envie.</i>‚Äù Then he would say, ‚ÄúOh!‚Äù and instruct her lawyers to divorce him.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúI was trying,‚Äù I said, ‚Äúto imagine your husband.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
				<p>The chair creaked, and from the shadow of the hat one blue eye looked at me like a blue stone worn by fire. ‚ÄúTwo,‚Äù she said. ‚ÄúThey are dead.‚Äù</p>
				<p>I wondered what she saw, looking over my shoulder. She kept strange, invisible company, this lady. She walked in measureless wastes, making flames rush up from stones, making molehills out of mountains. Then suddenly the headlines of a penny paper of two years ago unrolled before my mind, stood livid against my memory, slashed with the name of Storm. I had not a doubt but that he had been her second husband. ‚ÄúV.C. murdered. Sinn Feiners kill Captain Storm, V.C. Left on roadside with five bullet wounds.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
				<p>She said suddenly: ‚ÄúI am a house of men.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúWhat!‚Äù I said. ‚ÄúYou surprise me.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúA house of men. Of their desires and defeats and deaths. Of their desires, yes, of their deaths, yes and yes. It is, you can see, a great responsibility for me, and I have lodged complaints about it, but it is no use. I am a house of men. Ah me, ah me! Oh, dear! My friend, there is a curse, a quite visible curse. On us, the Marches. You will see it in my eyes one day, and you will be sorry for me.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúYou mustn‚Äôt believe in curses,‚Äù I said. ‚ÄúGood God, curses!‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúThe Marches,‚Äù she said, ‚Äúare never let off anything. That is the curse.‚Äù</p>
				<p>Her eyes were stronger than mine, even as wind is stronger than air, and always in them was the magic of wide open places. I looked down, and far below, like pearls in the dust, shone two ankles clasped in silk the colour of daylight. I thought of her fate and of her. I thought of corruption, of curses, of death, of life, of love, and of love‚Äôs delight. I took hold of the sword in my mind with both hands, but was not strong enough to lift it. I thought of the limbs of Aphrodite, of the sighs of Ana√Øtis, of the sharp cries of love‚Äôs delight. I thought how charming men would be if they could misbehave outwardly as prettily as they can in their minds. I said: ‚ÄúAnd so the house of March, fatal and damned, can never avoid its destiny.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúYes,‚Äù she said reasonably, ‚Äúit can avoid it. By not being weak enough to desire so strongly.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúOh, I see,‚Äù I said.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôm glad you see,‚Äù she said gravely. They listen to voices whispering dreams. While they listen, they do queer weak things. Of the soil sordid‚ÅÝ‚Äîthere is your March. But there is another March, who listens to voices whispering dreams. My father, Barty March, was, I think, one of the most loved men of his time. Like Napier is now, but of course Napier behaves. A policeman found Barty early one morning on the doorstep of a house we had then in Cambridge Square. He used to say he was never drunk until he closed his eyes, but this time he had closed his eyes into pneumonia. He only opened them once again, to look at Gerald and me, sixteen years old apiece. He smiled, you know, because Barty couldn‚Äôt help smiling. Besides, he was happy at last. ‚ÄúAvoid dreams,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúNever stop to listen to the clouds passing overhead. You will be run over. Never sympathise with the moon when you can hear it, cold and lonely and blind, crooning to itself like a corpse singing a hymn. You will catch pneumonia. Never dream of a world in which men are men and women are women. You will go mad.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
				<p>Her right hand hung limp over the arm of the chair. It was just faintly dirty, and the nails shone like pink ivory. The emerald on the third finger held my eyes enchanted for a long while. She smiled at my look, and as she lay her eyes swept falcon-like down to the stone. It made me rise out of myself, that falcon-like sweep of her clear eyes, and I thought of the pitiless misbehaviour of life, that had not let her stay within the sensible stability of marriage.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúIt‚Äôs a bit loose,‚Äù she was saying.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúI was wondering. It‚Äôs such a beauty! Aren‚Äôt you afraid of it falling?‚Äù</p>
				<p>She shook her head, staring at me with a mischievous smile. Her childishness did not jar. She was always herself. ‚ÄúOo, no! I have a knuckle. I crook it. And lo, it doesn‚Äôt fall.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúBut this sounds like a plot!‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúIt is a law,‚Äù she said. ‚ÄúThere are four laws, variously entitled a, b, c, d. The law (a) declares, against all formerly-held beliefs, that a flower is less beautiful because it is sure to die. That is a religious law, having to do with the unworth of perishable things, if you see what I mean. The law (b) has something to do with the fact that all men with long legs make poor lovers. That is a pagan law. You might write an essay on the long arm of coincidence and the short legs of co-respondents. It would be fun for you. The law (c) has something to do with exhorting a woman never to trust a man of honour, for he serves two mistresses. That is the law of good sense for amorous women, and will save them disappointment. The law (d) has to do with this ring, which is a bit loose, according to the directions of Jehovah.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúYou have mighty friends, Iris Storm!‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúAh, I need them! Desire is a child with hungry eyes, and for him a dragon lies waiting. This ring is a charm against dragons.‚Äù The slightly husky voice dreamed. It was an hour for dreaming. She would mask unhappy things with passing talk. ‚ÄúI called him Jehovah because the same was a jealous God. And I would mock him with that, saying that it was I who should be jealous of him, for doesn‚Äôt a man of honour serve two mistresses, while it is well known of women of dishonour, I would mock him, that they never serve but one god at a time. But he never was a worldly man, and so eaten by doubt that you would have laughed if he hadn‚Äôt been such a pet.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúAnd so he gave you the emerald to be as a witness against you, and to testify against your frailty?‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúNow take,‚Äù dreamed the husky voice, the great eyes fixed on the ceiling; and there was a smile in them, like a distant wave of music; ‚Äúnow take a night in Algeria. Take also a hill, and on the hill a garden.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúThe Hotel St. George, Mustapha Sup√©rieur, Algiers‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúAh, don‚Äôt forget the American Bar!‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúAnd the Benares bowls‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúAnd <i>calorif√®res</i> too hot or too cold‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúAnd Arab carpets from Victoria Street‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúAnd Americans with low heels‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúAnd a passion for ‚Äòmailing postals‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äô<span class="lftspc">‚Äù</span></p>
				<p>‚ÄúNot to mention veal every day‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúAnd a Soir√©e de Gala every Saturday‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúAnd the best-dressed women‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúOf Tunbridge Wells.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúBut take instead some red and purple flowers against a yellow wall, some oranges, a tangerine or two, three gazelles on a tennis-court, poppies tall as choir-boys, the cactus, the palm, and the pyramid cypress-tree. And watch, my friend, two shadows that walk in the wicked shadow of the pyramid cypress, that stands in the garden like a dark torch keeping watch over disillusion. It is night, or have I already told you that? Ah me, ah me, now will she who walks there ever forsake her love, will she ever be disloyal to her vows, that were made with so much pomp and circumstance in the Guards‚Äô Chapel at Westminster before a congregation notable for the absence of all her husband‚Äôs relations? Why, her heart is confident, her heart is fragrant with the honey of that moon‚Äôs passage, and she knows what she knows. And yet, and here is a most pitiful thing, there must be something in her, some fatal abandon, that sets men doubting, for he who walked with her in the wicked shadow of the pyramid cypress wore the silence of the destroyer, so that her heart cried that he was misnamed, for the mortal disease of his heel was suspicion. Now I must tell you that it was Christmas Eve, and after a little desultory conversation he said: ‚ÄòHere is a present for you, sweet,‚Äô and he gave me this emerald which you are kind enough to admire. ‚ÄòAlas,‚Äô I said, ‚Äòit is a little big for me! It may fall from my finger, don‚Äôt you see?‚Äô</p>
				<p>‚Äú<span class="lftspc">‚Äò</span>Yes, it may fall,‚Äô said he. ‚ÄòBut if you are careful, my sweet, if you curve your knuckle in time, it won‚Äôt dream of falling, not it!‚Äô And then I cried miserably, knowing there was a catch in this somewhere, for at that time I was not yet broken in and was still fearful of suspicion. And I cried: ‚ÄòHector Storm, what do you mean?‚Äô</p>
				<p>‚Äú<span class="lftspc">‚Äò</span>I mean, Iris, that you are as that ring‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äô</p>
				<p>‚Äú<span class="lftspc">‚Äò</span>Beautiful but loose, Hector? Ah, <i>timeo Danaos</i>!‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚Äú<span class="lftspc">‚Äò</span>Iris, will you never be serious! Yes, you are as that ring, which you must always wear on the third finger of your right hand. And as that ring may fall, Iris, so you may fall, for that is the sort of woman you are. But as that ring may be kept from falling, so may you keep yourself from falling. Oh, God,‚Äô he said, ‚Äòmy life is darkness without you, I love you so, and it‚Äôs a perfect hell with you, I love you so!‚Äô And he said much more that is unmentionable, and I learnt something, for it is only by listening to their husbands in moments of intimacy that well-brought-up women can become acquainted with certain good old English words. And though I pleaded bitterly that he was unfair to me, saying I was chained to him as my wrist might be chained to a star, which was no more than the truth, he insisted that I could be constant only to inconstancy, and so I was tired and went to bed. But look! Oh, look! Please look! Ah, the discourtesy of time! Really I must go now!‚Äù</p>
				<p>I drew my eyes from her eyes to see that the dawn had slyly thrown a grey handkerchief over the window. It was but the shape of the dawn creeping out into the night, it was but a ghostly breath in the night, but it was the dawn. And I did not know what to say, for can a man deny the dawn, that speaks good sense in its vast elemental language?</p>
				<p>The chair creaked and creaked. She was going now, there was no doubt about it. The texture of her face was grave, she was busy with the angle of her green hat. I examined the sword in my mind. The chair creaked and creaked, and then it was as though snapped by silence, and our startled eyes joined over the emerald that lay on the floor like the echo of the kiss, which was an unfair kiss. She shivered faintly, and drew herself taut, and was very proud. She was remote as the evening star, and very proud. Her eyes were dark as in a crypt, and her eyes looked lost, as though she had strayed into a maze. I lit a cigarette, and found my throat dry and parched.</p>
				<p>She found difficulty in speaking. I was amazed.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúNo,‚Äù she said. She shook her head. ‚ÄúCertainly not. My ring, please.‚Äù</p>
				<p>Imperiously her finger pointed to the floor, but her eyes were as plaintive as a nun‚Äôs who has strayed into one of the corridors of hell. That I might walk with her there I again made myself a Judas to her hand, and she shivered with her whole body as in a torment, and she seemed to bite her lip from within.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúIt means nothing,‚Äù she said coldly.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúI know,‚Äù I said.</p>
				<p>She breathed deeply, with a hand pressed to one breast, as though it hurt her. I think it must have hurt her very much. I was sorry. She shook her head, as though she was in a cage, and then she was as still as a cut flower. The whole brim of the green hat was between me and her face, we were both terribly alone. Her right hand drooped naked over the arm of the chair, and I was bending down to pick up the emerald to replace it on the third finger when a cautious knocking came from below.</p>
				<p>That was the second or third time of knocking, and each time it was less cautious, and I knew it to come from the policeman on the beat, who would be wishing to have the primrose car put in its proper place, which was not on the King‚Äôs highroad. I wondered if she had heard, but I could not see her face. I wondered if she heard me move. As I came to the door I switched out the light and the dawn pounced on her green hat, but she who wore it fought her battles carved in stone. She said something, I did not catch what, and I went downstairs and spoke with the policeman, who was an amiable middle-aged man of my acquaintance.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúMy brother is with me,‚Äù I said, ‚Äúbut he will be gone soon.‚Äù Shepherd‚Äôs Market was creeping out into the dawn, draped and mysterious with the shadows of night. A window here and there was alight against the dark pile of Camelot House. The great car stood like a bruise against the passage of eternity, dawn fought for it, night draped it, and the silver stork flew unseen. The small noises of dawn stirred sharply in the night, and the lamps wore pale, tired faces. ‚ÄúSummer‚Äôs well on,‚Äù said the policeman.</p>
				<p>I re-entered the sitting-room, saying impersonally: ‚ÄúI‚Äôm afraid you must go, as.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù The room was empty. The figure that had been carved in stone was wrapped in air. The disorder of the room lay jeering at me on the dim carpet of the dawn. It was all like a purposeless limbo stretched between the night and the day, the room, my life, hers, everything, the strong, the silly and the brave. The hundreds of books lay in soiled confusion on the floor, the wisdom of the world that has gone to the making of the soiled nothings that we are.</p>
				<p>I was seized by a catholic anger against the woman. Through all the disenchantments of youth, despite the contagious impurities of life, in defiance of the crimes against love that we call love, I had kept romance for my ghostly companion. Romance was more than a silly lithe goddess coming down from a marble column. Romance was more than the licence to be shameless with clouded eyes. Romance did not steal through the fleshy portals of the heart, did not shiver at a Judas kiss, did not coil white trembling limbs into the puerile lusts of the mind. Romance was all that and was as much greater than that as a religion is greater than a church. To romance, which was the ultimate vision of commonsense, sex, as sex, was the most colossal bore that had ever distracted man from his heritage. And she would palm a facet of this colossal bore off on me! She would have me barter my ghostly companion for the fall of an emerald, she would invade my thoughts, perhaps my life, in exchange for a puny pleasure that needs love to exalt it above the matchless silliness of what, with an excessive zeal for scientific classification, is known to our civilisation as the sexual act.</p>
				<p>I picked up the emerald from the floor, and it smiled in the palm of my hand.</p>
				<p>In the dusk of the bedroom, she lay coiled on the bed. The hush of her breathing was no more than the trembling servant of the silence. Then she coughed a small cigarette cough. It was the usual cough, and gave me back my confidence. ‚ÄúIris Storm!‚Äù I said, but I wondered if I had spoken, the frail silence was so undisturbed. She was asleep.</p>
				<p>Perhaps it was then that I realised that she was beautiful. She was asleep. Could any but the shape of beauty dare to wear that impertinence! She lay on her side, she lay anyhow. The green hat was gone.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúIris!‚Äù I said. Her hair was thick and tawny, and it waved like music, and the night was tangled in the waves of her hair. It was like a boy‚Äôs hair, swept back from the forehead, which was a wide, clear forehead, clean and brave and sensible as a boy‚Äôs. Sensible, oh dear! The tawny cornstalks danced their formal dance on the one cheek that I could see, and the tip of a pierced ear played beneath them, like a mouse in the cornfield. Above her neck her hair died a very manly death, a more manly death than ‚Äúbobbed‚Äù hair was ever known to die, and so it comes about that Iris Storm was the first Englishwoman I ever saw with ‚Äúshingled‚Äù hair. This was in 1922.</p>
				<p>I decided that I did not know what to do. I decided that that was just as well. ‚ÄúI will play,‚Äù I thought, ‚Äúa waiting game,‚Äù and lit a cigarette. But in her tawny hair the night was tangled like a promise, and it smelled as grass might smell in a fa√´ry land, and always about her there was that faint dry scent whose name I shall now never know. Her mouth drooped like a flower, and there was a little shiny bit in the valley between her cheek and her nose. To this I applied a little <i>Quelques Fleurs</i> talc powder on a handkerchief, that when she awoke she should not think so ill of herself as I did. Hers was a small, straight nose with an imperceptible curve, just as any straight line might have, and its tip quivered a little as she breathed. Her leather jacket <i>pour le sport</i>, that had a high collar trimmed with some minks, was flung open, and over the breast of her dark dress five small red elephants were marching towards an unknown destination. Towards her feet her hat lay with my hat.</p>
				<p>Gently, gently, gently as the phantom of myself, for was I not being better than myself? I would replace the emerald on the third finger of her right hand. I would, when hair that was not my own was pressed against my ear, and fingers that were not my own took the cigarette from my mouth, and teeth that were not mine bit my lip, and when the red elephants marching towards an unknown destination stirred breasts full of shadows, and a voice as clear and strong as daylight said: ‚ÄúBut enough of this hell!‚Äù</p>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-1-4" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h3>
				<p>Of all that had once decorated the walls of my sitting-room there was left by the removers only a looking-glass in an ancient gold frame, above the fireplace. My mother had once given me an oil-painting, saying, ‚ÄúThis will do nicely for your flat,‚Äù but I in my pride had thought a looking-glass would offend the frame more judiciously.</p>
				<p>She stood before that.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúWhat is the time?‚Äù she asked her reflection, and I told her that it was ten minutes to six.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúHave you a comb?‚Äù she asked of her reflection, and luckily I had a comb which was not my comb. She looked at it and saw that it was so.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúThank you,‚Äù she said to her reflection.</p>
				<p>The light of the tawny hair mocked the clouded daylight, and when, with the palm of her hand on her forehead, she swept the comb from front to back, it flamed tiger-tawny and ate into my spirit. <i>Tiger, tiger, burning bright, in the forests of the night.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶</i></p>
				<p>In the Upper Fifth at school there was a tall, cold-eyed blood called Dwight-Rankin‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI think he died on Gallipoli‚ÅÝ‚Äîwho used to sit at the desk just in front of mine. He was a man of the mode, wearing his fair hair plastered from front to back, and his neck was clean and unspotted as a girl‚Äôs, and I would spend minutes wondering whether, if one touched the gold down in which his hair ended high above his neck one would feel hair or only skin. The back of her head affected me like that; it was just like Dwight-Rankin‚Äôs, only dry, and tiger-tawny.</p>
				<p>She tore the small comb through the dancing curls on each cheek, so that they trembled like voiceless bells. It is a commonplace about women, as assiduously remarked by brilliant feminine psychologists as women‚Äôs ‚Äúcaprice‚Äù and ‚Äúintuition,‚Äù that every woman must now and then make a ‚Äúgrimace of distaste‚Äù into a looking-glass. But she did not do that, nor need to. She was untouched, unsoiled, impregnable to the grubby, truthful hand of <i>lex femina</i>. She was like a tower of beauty in the morning of the world. The outlaw was above the law of afterwards, impervious and imperious. She was beautiful, grave, proud. How beautiful she was now! It was a sort of blasphemy in her to be so beautiful now, to stand in such ordered loveliness, to be neither shameful like a maiden nor shameless like a mondaine, nor show any fussy after-trill of womanhood, any dingy ember of desire. It was a sort of blasphemy in her, as it would be in a peacock to sing gracefully.</p>
				<p>The silence got on my nerves, and I said something, anything. She looked over her shoulder at me, vaguely. She was the male of the species that is more fearless than mankind. I wondered what she was going to say.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúMy hat, please,‚Äù she said. I appeared to have been holding it in my hand. With her left hand she crushed it on her head and kept her hand on the crown, looking at herself intently in the looking-glass. I was startled at her eyes in the looking-glass. They were cold blue stones, expressionless, caddish as a beast‚Äôs.</p>
				<p>Down, down, with two fingers of her left hand, she pulled the brim of the green hat over her left eyebrow. She said: ‚ÄúI think I must have left my powder in the other room. Do you mind?‚Äù I brought her the case of white jade and the box of black onyx. She powdered, without interest.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúGood-bye,‚Äù she said. Her hand was held out, her eyes were full on mine, naked, expressionless. I felt that they were the heads of the nails under which she had nailed herself. It would be a kindness to let her go quickly, a kindness which she would not have allowed me had I been a woman and she a man.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúGood-bye,‚Äù I said. And suddenly the hand that lay in mine pressed mine, and she gave a vague, brittle laugh.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúIt seems a pity,‚Äù she said; and then the eyes in the shadow of the brim seemed to open wide, wide.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúYou see?‚Äù she whispered. ‚ÄúYou see?‚Äù</p>
				<p>But I could see nothing but her silhouette against the future days. I said: ‚ÄúWe have begun at the wrong end; but can‚Äôt we work back?‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúOh, no!‚Äù she whispered. ‚ÄúIt is not like that a bit. You don‚Äôt understand.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
				<p>Suddenly I said many things.</p>
				<p>She seemed, her hand still in mine, to be absorbed in something just behind my right shoulder. There was such fear in her eyes that I cried sharply: ‚ÄúWhat is it?‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúThe beast,‚Äù said the lips of the eyes of fear. ‚ÄúJust the beast.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
				<p>The word I said was drowned in the din of a lorry that smashed through Whitehorse Street to Piccadilly. She took her hand gently from mine. ‚ÄúThere is a dream,‚Äù she said, ‚Äúand there is a beast.‚Äù</p>
				<p>She smiled.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúThat‚Äôs all,‚Äù she said.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúI can understand regret,‚Äù I said, ‚Äúbut‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúAh, we can understand, you and I! We are as old as sand‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ at this moment.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúBut, Iris Storm, regret seems like a scar on you!‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúNot regret,‚Äù she said, so calmly. ‚ÄúShame.‚Äù And she took my hand again, closely. ‚ÄúYou must forgive me. I couldn‚Äôt have said that to any other man. My shame mustn‚Äôt shame you, please! But you have a cold mind, you are disenchanted, you understand. And oh, if one could be assoiled in human understanding! You see, I am not what you think. I am not of the women of your life. I am not the proud adventuress who touches men for pleasure, the silly lady who misbehaves for fun. I am the meanest of all, she who destroys her body because she must, she who hates the thing she is, she who loathes the thing she does.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù The breathless, pregnant voice seemed to fall to the floor, like a small bird with broken wings, and as it struggled upwards I said: ‚ÄúYou are like a boy after his first love.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúOh, if it was boyishness!‚Äù And she took from the pocket of her leather jacket a tube of gold, and she broke it into two pieces, and she stared moon-struck at the carmine tongue of the lip-salve.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúTo be born a chaste woman,‚Äù she said to the carmine tongue, ‚Äúis good. I am in favour of chastity. I would die for purity, in theory.‚Äù She painted her mouth, staring moon-struck into the daylight. ‚ÄúYes, I would die for purity. I wouldn‚Äôt mind dying anyhow, but it would be nice to die for purity.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
				<p>I said thus and thus.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúYes,‚Äù she said, not having heard a word of mine, ‚Äúit is not good to have a pagan body and a Chislehurst mind, as I have. It is hell for the body and terror for the mind. There are dreams, and there are beasts. The dreams walk glittering up and down the soiled loneliness of desire, the beasts prowl about the soiled loneliness of regret. Good-bye.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúThen it must be ‚Äògood-bye‚Äô?‚Äù</p>
				<p>She looked at me with a strange, dark friendliness, and nodded.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúBecause of shame,‚Äù she said. ‚ÄúBut if I were different, I would like you for my friend‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
				<p>To my interruption, which she did not hear, she said: ‚ÄúI have only one lover. But I know that only because I always feel unfaithful to him. It would be good to be really bad, but I am not even that. I only misbehave. I will see you again, when I have found my only love. Or I will see you again when I am qualified to die for purity. I will let you know, so you can be there. God bless you, dear.‚Äù</p>
				<p>And I said what I said, that He had, with Iris Storm.</p>
				<p>She went very white. ‚ÄúThat shall be written down,‚Äù she whispered, ‚Äúas the prayer of the only man who ever shamed a woman of her shame.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúMy days of adventure, Iris Storm, are over. A few years ago it would have seemed nothing to me that you should disappear as you came, into the great hole of London. To experts in adventure that is, I think, the usual procedure. But now I would like a trace of you. You must not leave me, quite. If I may not see you again, mayn‚Äôt I perhaps talk to you? Or, what is the main thing, feel that I could if I dared?‚Äù</p>
				<p>She said she was in London now only on business that would last a few weeks, and lived always abroad. ‚ÄúBut this is the telephone-number,‚Äù she said, and I was looking round for paper and pencil when she said ‚ÄúHere!‚Äù and her leather arm darted to the floor and came up with a book, and on the fly-leaf of the book she scrawled the number with her lip-stick.</p>
				<p>High above the sharp noises of the young day I heard the scream of an electric-horn.</p>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
